This directory contains the CSV file and script you need to generate a folder and README file for each project in the BioHackathon. The script will also generate a YAML file that is used for the projects page of the website (projects.html). The directories will be uploaded to a BioHackathon projects repo for that year e.g. https://github.com/elixir-europe/biohackathon-projects-2021. Participants of the BioHackathon will then work on their projects here.

# Files
## The CSV file
The CSV file containing the details of the projects will come from the events software (e.g. EasyChair). The fields of the file may vary slightly from year to year so bear that in mind when running the script.

## The YAML file (projects.yaml)
This is generated by the scripts and contains details of the projects.

## The scripts
### repo_gen.py
The script to modify and run to generate the project folders, READMEs and the YAML file. You will find comments in the script, which include some things to watch out for.

# Instructions
1. Get the CSV dump of the BioHackathon projects, once the choice of projects has been finalised. Contact the BioHackathon organisers for this.
2. Fork the website repo and create your local repo. Work in your local repo from now on.
3. Delete the contents of the scripts/projects directory and the scripts/projects.yaml file.
4. Put your CSV file in the /scripts directory. If the file is in .xlsx format then keep it in that format until step 6.
5. Check that the file has the fields the script is expecting. This may vary from year to year but generally will be: Project number,Authors,Title,Leads for Project,Expected outcomes,Expected participants,Nominated participant,Number of days for project,Topics,Time,Decision,Keywords,Abstract. Check that the 'Project Number' field is a sequential list of numbers (not a duplicate of the 'EventBrite' field). Check with the organisers which fields are needed. Many will appear in the README file for each project. 
6. Compare the fields defined in repo_gen.py with the ones in your CSV file. Make sure they match. Read the comments in the script to see how the script works.
7. Change the variables in the script to match your new CSV file and your new repo location. You don't have to have made the repo yet.
6. If necessary, convert from .xlsx to .csv (UTF-8). Be careful not to lose hidden fields when you do. 
7. Run the script ('python3 repo_gen.py' from the command line within the 'scripts' directory).
8. If the script simply says 'The fields are...' then just lists the fields in the CSV then there is a mismatch of the fields expected by the script and the fields in the CSV file. Try running the script on a CSV file from a previous year to get an idea of what should happen.
9. If the script keeps stopping with errors like `SyntaxError: invalid syntax`, `SyntaxError: unterminated string literal` and `SyntaxError: invalid decimal literal` then try downloading the file again and pointing the script at this new file in the downloads location. Another option is to rename the CSV file and try again. There are sometimes problems in VS Code with importing CSVs, where somehow VS Code corrupts them and you need to either restart VS Code, or point the script at another file with exactly the same contents.
10. Once run, the /scripts/projects directory should contain a folder and README for each project, and the 'projects.yaml' file should be populated.
11. Create a repo for the folders, using the naming convention biohackathon-projects-[year].
12. Upload the projects folder here.
13. Create a README with links to the projects. Copy the README from previous years and change the titles.(TO-DO: automate this!).
14. Copy the contents of 'projects.yaml' into '\_projects/accepted_projects.yml'. Keep the modified date at the top, and change it to the current date.
15. Go to /projects.html in your localhost and check that the page is now populated with the new projects.
16. Push accepted_projects.yml to the website repo and check the live /projects.html is working okay with the new projects.

# Contact
webmaster@elixir-europe.org
